---
aliases:
  - Scrum
  - Scrum framework
---
Scrum is a Framework for product development through an iterative approach. It gets its name from a rugby formation. The [[1.2 Scrum Guide|Scrum Guide]] defines the framework as is currently understood[^scrum-development-process][^scrum-guide-2020].

From the [[1.2 Scrum Guide|Scrum Guide (2020)]]:
> Scrum is a lightweight framework that helps people, teams and [[organization|organizations]] generate value through adaptive solutions for complex problems.
> 
> In a nutshell, Scrum requires a [[Scrum Master]] to foster an environment where:
> 1. A [[Product Owner]] orders the work for a complex problem into a [[Product Backlog]].
> 2. The [[1.5 Scrum Team|Scrum Team]] turns a selection of the work into an [[Increment]] of value during a [[Sprint]].
> 3. The [[1.5 Scrum Team|Scrum Team]] and its [[stakeholders]] inspect the results and adjust for the next [[Sprint]].
> 4. _Repeat_
> 
> Scrum is simple. Try it as is and determine if its philosophy, [[1.3 Scrum theory|theory]], and structure help to achieve [[1.8 commitment|goals]] and create value. The Scrum framework is purposefully incomplete, only defining the parts required to implement [[1.3 Scrum theory|Scrum theory]]. Scrum is built upon by the collective intelligence of the people using it. Rather than provide people with detailed instructions, the rules of Scrum guide their relationships and interactions.
> 
> Various processes, techniques and methods can be employed within the framework. Scrum wraps around existing practices or renders them unnecessary. Scrum makes visible the relative efficacy of current management, environment, and work techniques, so that improvements can be made.

## Scrum History
- 1986 Hirotaka Takeuchi and Ikujiro Nonaka publish The New New Product Development Game on Harward Business Review. First instance of the word "Scrum" from Rugby used as a metaphor for product development[^scrum-development-process][^new-new-product-development].
- 1995 Ken Schwaber and Jeff Sutherland present Scrum at OOPSLA 1995. First time Scrum is introduced as a development framework[^new-new-product-development][^scrum-guide-2020].
- 1996 Ken Schwaber publishes the paper *SCRUM Development Process* based on his presentation at OOPSLA 1995. First written document describing the Scrum framework[^new-new-product-development].
- 2001 Scrum creators Ken Schwaber and Jeff Suttherland co-sign the *Manifesto for Agile Software Development*[^agile-manifesto]
- 2010 First version of the Scrum Guide[^scrum-guide-2020]
- 2020 Current version of the Scrum Guide published (v7)[^scrum-guide-2020]

[^new-new-product-development]: [Harvard Business Review - *The New New Product Development Game* Hirotaka Takeuchi and Ikujiro Nonaka (1986)](https://hbr.org/1986/01/the-new-new-product-development-game)
[^scrum-development-process]: [Scrum.org - *The Scrum Development Process* by Ken Schwaber (1996)](https://www.scrum.org/resources/scrum-development-process)
[^agile-manifesto]:  [*Manifesto for Agile Software Development*](https://agilemanifesto.org/)
[^scrum-guide-2020]: [scrumguides.org - *The 2020 Scrum Guide*](https://scrumguides.org/docs/scrumguide/v2020/2020-Scrum-Guide-US.pdf)
