---
aliases:
  - adaptation
  - inspection
  - transparency
  - adapting
  - adapt
  - inspect
  - inspectable
  - inspected
  - transparent
  - adaptations
  - Scrum pillar
  - Scrum pillars
  - empiricism
  - lean thinking
  - theory
---
From the [[1.2 Scrum Guide|Scrum Guide (2020)]]:
> [[1.1 Scrum framework|Scrum]] is founded on empiricism and lean thinking. Empiricism asserts that knowledge comes from experience and making decisions based on what is observed. Lean thinking reduces waste and focuses on the essentials.
> 
> [[1.1 Scrum framework|Scrum]] employs an iterative, incremental approach to optimize predictability and to control risk. Scrum engages groups of people who collectively have all the skills and expertise to do the work and share or acquire such skills as needed.
> 
> [[1.1 Scrum framework|Scrum]] combines four formal [[1.6 Scrum events|events]] for inspection and adaptation within a containing event, the [[3.1 Sprint|Sprint]]. These events work because they implement the empirical Scrum pillars of transparency, inspection, and adaptation.

## Scrum pillars

There are three Scrum pillars: transparency, inspection, adaptation[^scrum-guide-2020]. The [[1.7 Scrum artifacts|Scrum artifacts]] and [[1.6 Scrum events|Scrum events]] implement the Scrum pillars. The [[1.7 Scrum artifacts|Scrum artifacts]] are *transparent* to anybody in the [[6.1 organization|organization]]. Since they are transparent, they can be *inspected* regularly. The [[1.6 Scrum events|Scrum events]] provide the cadence to ensure that the *inspection* takes place. As the [[1.7 Scrum artifacts|Scrum artifacts]] are *inspected*, more is learned, enabling *adaptation*[^scrum-events][^transparency][^inspection][^adaptation].

[^scrum-events]: "The Sprint is a container for all other events. Each event in Scrum is a formal opportunity to inspect and adapt Scrum artifacts. These events are specifically designed to enable the transparency required. Failure to operate any events as prescribed results in lost opportunities to inspect and adapt. Events are used in Scrum to create regularity and to minimize the need for meetings not defined in Scrum."[^scrum-guide-2020]
[^transparency]: "The emergent process and work must be visible to those performing the work as well as those receiving the work. With Scrum, important decisions are based on the perceived state of its three formal artifacts. Artifacts that have low transparency can lead to decisions that diminish value and increase risk. Transparency enables inspection. Inspection without transparency is misleading and wasteful."[^scrum-guide-2020]
[^inspection]: "The Scrum artifacts and the progress toward agreed goals must be inspected frequently and diligently to detect potentially undesirable variances or problems. To help with inspection, Scrum provides cadence in the form of its five events. Inspection enables adaptation. Inspection without adaptation is considered pointless. Scrum events are designed to provoke change."[^scrum-guide-2020]
[^adaptation]: "If any aspects of a process deviate outside acceptable limits or if the resulting product is unacceptable, the process being applied or the materials being produced must be adjusted. The adjustment must be made as soon as possible to minimize further deviation. Adaptation becomes more difficult when the people involved are not empowered or self-managing. A Scrum Team is expected to adapt the moment it learns anything new through inspection."[^scrum-guide-2020]

[^scrum-guide-2020]: [[1.2 Scrum Guide|Scrum Guide (2020)]]


