---
aliases:
  - focus
  - focused
  - focuses
---
From the [[1.2 Scrum Guide|Scrum Guide]].
> Successful use of Scrum depends on people becoming more proficient in living five values:
> **_Commitment, Focus, Openness, Respect, and Courage_**
> 
> The [[1.5 Scrum Team|Scrum Team]] commits to achieving its [[1.8 commitment|goals]] and to supporting each other. Their primary focus is on the work of the [[3.1 Sprint|Sprint]] to make the best possible progress toward these [[1.8 commitment|goals]]. The [[1.5 Scrum Team|Scrum Team]] and its [[6.2 stakeholders|stakeholders]] are open about the work and the challenges. [[1.5 Scrum Team|Scrum Team]] members respect each other to be capable, independent people, and are respected as such by the people with whom they work. The [[1.5 Scrum Team|Scrum Team]] members have the courage to do the right thing, to work on tough problems.
> 
> These values give direction to the [[1.5 Scrum Team|Scrum Team]] with regard to their work, actions, and behavior. The decisions that are made, the steps taken, and the way Scrum is used should reinforce these values, not diminish or undermine them. The [[1.5 Scrum Team|Scrum Team]] members learn and explore the values as they work with the [[1.6 Scrum events|Scrum events]] and [[1.7 Scrum artifacts|artifacts]]. When these values are embodied by the [[1.5 Scrum Team|Scrum Team]] and the [[6.1 organization|people they work with]], the empirical [[1.3 Scrum theory|Scrum theory]] of transparency, inspection, and adaptation come to life building trust.

The Scrum Values are reflected in the [[1.2 Scrum Guide|Scrum Guide]], e.g.:
- "\[The [[1.5 Scrum Team|Scrum Team]]\] is a cohesive unit of professionals focused on one objective at a time, the Product Goal".
- "\[The [[2.1 Developers|Developers]] hold\] each other accountable as professionals".
- "[[2.3 Scrum Master|Scrum Masters]] are true leaders who serve the [[1.5 Scrum Team|Scrum Team]] and the larger [[6.1 organization|organization]]."
- "\[The [[3.1 Sprint|Sprints]]] are fixed length events of one month or less to create consistency."
- "\[The [[5.2 Sprint Goal|Sprint Goal]]\] creates coherence and focus, encouraging the Scrum Team to work together rather than on separate initiatives."

[^sprint-goal-is]: "The Sprint Goal is the single objective for the Sprint. Although the Sprint Goal is a commitment by the Developers, it provides flexibility in terms of the exact work needed to achieve it. The Sprint Goal also creates coherence and focus, encouraging the Scrum Team to work together rather than on separate initiatives."[^scrum-guide-2020]

[^scrum-guide-2020]: [[1.2 Scrum Guide|Scrum Guide (2020)]]