---
aliases:
  - Sprint Retrospective
  - Sprint Retrospectives
permalink: Sprint Retrospective
---
The Sprint Retrospective is the last [[1.6 Scrum events|event]] of the [[3.1 Sprint|Sprint]] and concludes it. With the end of the Sprint Retrospective, the next [[3.1 Sprint|Sprint]] starts[^a-new-sprint-starts].

[^sprint-retrospective-concludes]: "The Sprint Retrospective concludes the Sprint. It is timeboxed to a maximum of three hours for a one-month Sprint. For shorter Sprints, the event is usually shorter."[^scrum-guide-2020]
[^a-new-sprint-starts]: "A new Sprint starts immediately after the conclusion of the previous Sprint."[^scrum-guide-2020]

Only the [[1.5 Scrum Team|Scrum Team]] participates to the Sprint Retrospective. It is an opportunity to [[1.3 Scrum theory|inspect]] how they work[^purpose-sprint-retrospective][^scrum-team-inspects].

Agenda[^scrum-team-inspects][^scrum-team-identifies]:
- What went well during the [[3.1 Sprint|Sprint]]?
- What problems were encountered during the [[3.1 Sprint|Sprint]] and how where they (not) solved?
- What should change?
- If necessary, some changes are added to the [[4.2 Sprint Backlog|Sprint Backlog]] for the next [[3.1 Sprint|Sprint]].

[^purpose-sprint-retrospective]: "The purpose of the Sprint Retrospective is to plan ways to increase quality and effectiveness."[^scrum-guide-2020]
[^scrum-team-inspects]: "The Scrum Team inspects how the last Sprint went with regards to individuals, interactions, processes, tools, and their Definition of Done. Inspected elements often vary with the domain of work. Assumptions that led them astray are identified and their origins explored. The Scrum Team discusses what went well during the Sprint, what problems it encountered, and how those problems were (or were not) solved."[^scrum-guide-2020]
[^scrum-team-identifies]: "The Scrum Team identifies the most helpful changes to improve its effectiveness. The most impactful improvements are addressed as soon as possible. They may even be added to the Sprint Backlog for the next Sprint."[^scrum-guide-2020]

The Sprint Review is timeboxed to three hours maximum for the longest [[3.1 Sprint|Sprint]] length (one month). For shorter [[3.1 Sprint|Sprints]] it should be less[^sprint-retrospective-concludes] [^sprint-length]. The [[2.3 Scrum Master|Scrum Master]] ensures that the Sprint Review takes place and stays within the timebox[^scrum-master-events].

[^sprint-length]: "They are fixed length events of one month or less to create consistency."[^scrum-guide-2020]
[^scrum-master-events]:"The Scrum Master serves the Scrum Team in several ways, including: \[...\] Ensuring that all Scrum events take place and are positive, productive, and kept within the timebox."[^scrum-guide-2020]

[^scrum-guide-2020]: [[1.2 Scrum Guide|Scrum Guide (2020)]]

## Sprint Retrospective and Nexus

In the [[N1.1 Nexus framework|Nexus framework]], the [[3.5 Sprint Retrospective|Sprint Retrospectives]] of the [[1.5 Scrum Team|Scrum Teams]] provide bottom-up intelligence for the [[N3.5 Nexus Sprint Retrospective|Nexus Sprint Retrospective]][^purpose-nexus-retrospective]. The [[N3.5 Nexus Sprint Retrospective|Nexus Sprint Retrospective]] then concludes the [[3.1 Sprint|Sprint]][^nexus-retrospective-concludes-sprint].

[^purpose-nexus-retrospective]: "The purpose of the Nexus Sprint Retrospective is to plan ways to increase quality and effectiveness across the whole Nexus. The Nexus inspects how the last Sprint went with regards to individuals, teams, interactions, processes, tools, and its Definition of Done. In addition to individual team improvements, the Scrum Teams’ Sprint Retrospectives complement the Nexus Sprint Retrospective by using bottom-up intelligence to focus on issues that affect the Nexus as a whole."[^nexus-guide-2021]

[^nexus-retrospective-concludes-sprint]: "The Nexus Sprint Retrospective concludes the Sprint."[^nexus-guide-2021]

[^nexus-guide-2021]: [[N1.2 Nexus Guide|Nexus Guide (2021)]]
