---
aliases:
  - Nexus Sprint Review
permalink: Nexus Sprint Review
---
The Nexus Sprint Review replaces [[1.1 Scrum framework|Scrum]]'s [[3.4 Sprint Review|Sprint Review]]. The participants are the [[N1.1 Nexus framework|Nexus]] and key [[6.2 stakeholders|stakeholders]]. The participants inspect the [[N4.2 Integrated Increment|Integrated Increment]] instead of the individual [[4.3 Increment|Increment(s)]] of the [[1.5 Scrum Team|Scrum Teams]] as defined in [[1.1 Scrum framework|Scrum]][^nexus-review-end-of-sprint][^since-entire-integrated].

Agenda[^nexus-inherits-scrum][^during-the-event][^nexus-review-end-of-sprint][^since-entire-integrated]:
- The [[N1.1 Nexus framework|Nexus]] presents to the [[6.2 stakeholders|stakeholder]] the [[N4.2 Integrated Increment|Integrated Increment]] created during the [[3.1 Sprint|Sprint]].
- The participants discuss the progress towards the [[5.1 Product Goal|Product Goal]].
- The [[6.2 stakeholders|stakeholders]] [[1.3 Scrum theory|inspect]] the [[N4.2 Integrated Increment|Integrated Increment]][^for-po-succeed].
- The participants review what changed in the environment.
- The participants collaborate on what to do next towards the [[5.1 Product Goal|Product Goal]].
- If necessary, the [[2.2 Product Owner|Product Owner]] or some delegate updates the [[4.1 Product Backlog|Product Backlog]] accordingly with new opportunities[^po-accountable-product-backlog].

|              | Scrum                                                                        | Nexus                                                                      |
| ------------ | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| participants | [[1.5 Scrum Team\|Scrum Team(s)]] and key [[6.2 stakeholders\|stakeholders]] | [[N1.1 Nexus framework\|Nexus]] and key [[6.2 stakeholders\|stakeholders]] |
| inspection   | [[4.3 Increment\|Increment(s)]]                                              | [[N4.2 Integrated Increment\|Integrated Increment]]                        |


[^nexus-inherits-scrum]: "The Nexus framework inherits the purpose and intent of the Scrum framework as documented in the [Scrum Guide](https://www.scrumguides.org/). Scaled Scrum is still Scrum. Nexus does not change the core design or ideas of Scrum, or leave out elements, or negate the rules of Scrum. Doing so covers up problems and limits the benefits of Scrum, potentially even rendering it useless."[^nexus-guide-2021]

[^nexus-review-end-of-sprint]: "The Nexus Sprint Review is held at the end of the Sprint to provide feedback on the done Integrated Increment that the Nexus has built over the Sprint and determine future adaptations."[^nexus-guide-2021]

[^since-entire-integrated]: "Since the entire Integrated Increment is the focus for capturing feedback from stakeholders, a Nexus Sprint Review replaces individual Scrum Team Sprint Reviews. During the event, the Nexus presents the results of their work to key stakeholders and progress toward the Product Goal is discussed, although it may not be possible to show all completed work in detail. Based on this information, attendees collaborate on what the Nexus should do to address the feedback. The Product Backlog may be adjusted to reflect these discussions."[^nexus-guide-2021]

[^nexus-guide-2021]: [[Nexus Guide|Nexus Guide (2021)]]

[^purpose-sprint-review]: "The purpose of the Sprint Review is to inspect the outcome of the Sprint and determine future adaptations. The Scrum Team presents the results of their work to key stakeholders and progress toward the Product Goal is discussed."[^scrum-guide-2020]

[^during-the-event]: "During the event, the Scrum Team and stakeholders review what was accomplished in the Sprint and what has changed in their environment. Based on this information, attendees collaborate on what to do next. The Product Backlog may also be adjusted to meet new opportunities. The Sprint Review is a working session and the Scrum Team should avoid limiting it to a presentation."[^scrum-guide-2020]

[^sprint-review-second-last]: "The Sprint Review is the second to last event of the Sprint and is timeboxed to a maximum of four hours for a one-month Sprint. For shorter Sprints, the event is usually shorter."[^scrum-guide-2020]

[^for-po-succeed]:"For Product Owners to succeed, the entire organization must respect their decisions. These decisions are visible in the content and ordering of the Product Backlog, and through the inspectable Increment at the Sprint Review."[^scrum-guide-2020]

[^po-accountable-product-backlog]: "The Product Owner is also accountable for effective Product Backlog management, \[...\]. The Product Owner may do the above work or may delegate the responsibility to others. Regardless, the Product Owner remains accountable."[^scrum-guide-2020]

[^scrum-guide-2020]: [[1.2 Scrum Guide|Scrum Guide (2020)]]
