---
aliases:
  - Product Goal
  - product
permalink: Product Goal
---

# Product Goal

The Product Goal is the [[1.8 commitment|commitment]] of the [[4.1 Product Backlog|Product Backlog]][^each-artifact-contains].   The [[1.5 Scrum Team|Scrum Team]] [[1.4 Scrum Values|focuses]] on one Product Goal at the time[^focus-product-goal]. They finish the current Product Goal first before moving on to the next.

[^each-artifact-contains]: "Each artifact contains a commitment to ensure it provides information that enhances transparency and focus against which progress can be measured: For the Product Backlog it is the Product Goal. \[...\]"[^scrum-guide-2020]
[^focus-product-goal]: "\[The Scrum Team\] is a cohesive unit of professionals focused on one objective at a time, the Product Goal."[^scrum-guide-2020]
[^product-goal-is]: "The Product Goal is the long-term objective for the Scrum Team. They must fulfill (or abandon) one objective before taking on the next."[^scrum-guide-2020]

The Product Goal describes the future state of the product. The [[4.1 Product Backlog|Product Backlog items]] define what will be done to achieve the Product Goal. Based on the product goal, the [[1.5 Scrum Team|Scrum Team]] defines the [[5.2 Sprint Goal|Sprint Goal]] at the [[3.2 Sprint Planning|Sprint Planning]] and plans the rest of the [[3.1 Sprint|Sprint]] accordingly[^product-goal-describes][^topic-one].

[^product-goal-describes]: "The Product Goal describes a future state of the product which can serve as a target for the Scrum Team to plan against. The Product Goal is in the Product Backlog. The rest of the Product Backlog emerges to define “what” will fulfill the Product Goal."[^scrum-guide-2020]
[^topic-one]: "The Product Owner proposes how the product could increase its value and utility in the current Sprint. The whole Scrum Team then collaborates to define a Sprint Goal that communicates why the Sprint is valuable to stakeholders. The Sprint Goal must be finalized prior to the end of Sprint Planning."[^scrum-guide-2020]

The [[1.2 Scrum Guide|Scrum Guide]] defines the product as[^scrum-guide-2020]:
> A product is a vehicle to deliver value. It has a clear boundary, known stakeholders, well-defined users or customers. A product could be a service, a physical product, or something more abstract.

The [[2.2 Product Owner|Product Owner]] is accountable for developing and communicating it[^po-accountable-for]. The [[2.3 Scrum Master|Scrum Master]] helps the [[2.2 Product Owner|Product Owner]] define the Product Goal[^scrum-master-serves].

[^po-accountable-for]: "The Product Owner is also accountable for effective Product Backlog management, which includes: Developing and explicitly communicating the Product Goal; \[...\]"[^scrum-guide-2020]

[^scrum-master-serves]: "The Scrum Master serves the Product Owner in several ways, including: Helping find techniques for effective Product Goal definition and Product Backlog management; \[...\]"[^scrum-guide-2020]

[^scrum-guide-2020]: [[1.2 Scrum Guide|Scrum Guide (2020)]]

## Product Backlog and Nexus

In the [[N1.1 Nexus framework|Nexus framework]], the [[5.1 Product Goal|Product Goal]] is treated as the objective for the whole [[N1.1 Nexus framework|Nexus]][^product-goal-nexus].

[^product-goal-nexus]: "The *commitment* for the Product Backlog is the **Product Goal**. The Product Goal, which describes the future state of the product and serves as a long-term goal of the Nexus."[^nexus-guide-2021]

[^nexus-guide-2021]: [[N1.2 Nexus Guide|Nexus Guide (2021)]]
